Chloe Lannert: Mark is not you should you should shame him. I tried to make some interesting stories points just so excited.
Chloe Lannert: 1st off.
Chloe Lannert: thank you to Meg for making the intro. So the connection here Zach and Meg both went through blue startups out in Hawaii, and Zach is the CEO of Selly automotive.
Chloe Lannert: Went like, did the walk for years and years ultimately had an exit. It's got some really interesting high points to cover, but, like all of our sessions. Q. And a. Is best conversational. Keep it chill, but has seen M. And a. From both sides of the table, has built up a business from like 0 in a really unsexy industry and made it work, sold it to investors
Chloe Lannert: raised early, and then kept it sort of profit based for a while, which I know a lot of you want to do is like, raise a little bit of cash and then just build. So, leaning into the how there will be really interesting for all of you guys. And yeah, thank you for being here. Awesome. Well, thanks so much, Chloe. And of course. Thanks Meg.
Chloe Lannert: so I wanted to give kind of a brief background about selling and kind of the founder journey. So just to give you cliff notes before I talk about the founder journey at acquisition. We had a team size of 22. We were profitable. We only raised 650,000. That's the blue startups accelerator program investment. And then half of that was convertible notes. Half was safe notes.
Chloe Lannert: roughly, 7 million dollar cap. 20. Discount is kind of the range that we raised. I started the company when I was 23 years old, meaning one year out of college, meaning you really don't know that much. So I've learned a lot of hard lessons, good lessons
Chloe Lannert: I sold when I was 30, almost 31, 2 months away from 31, and the last 2 years I've worked as chief strategy officer, so I've led M. And A. We've acquired 3 different automotive vertical Saas companies like my company selling.
Chloe Lannert: So what I did. I literally did everything except engineering from fundraising biz dev sales. I sold our 100, you know, B, 2 B customers myself, and I'll tell you a little bit. You know about my story and my journey. I started in the car business when I was 19 years old. So while I was going to college. I was working full time at a dealership.
Chloe Lannert: and what I noticed at the dealership. They had all this like legacy technology, and there was high turnover rate for the salespeople it was hard to get buy in. Yeah, I know Vivian knows a little bit about auto
Chloe Lannert: and I was like God, I want to do something about this and when I graduated I packed everything I had in my Ford mustang moved out to the Bay area. I had a Sdr. Job, which is a grind job 120 cold calls a day. They made us call East Coast to West Coast.
Chloe Lannert: and it was a good, you know, exposure to like a fast growing b 2 b Saas company, even though I was doing. You know, minor sales role. I got a lot of exposure to how they were running the business, and I started working on this. It was originally just an app for salespeople. So where was that 1st job? Here? San Mateo? Okay, what was the company? It was called Bright Edge? They do like enterprise SEO.
Chloe Lannert: And it it was a really interesting company because everyone was working crazy hours. They were growing like crazy, like in the course of me working there, they added a hundred employees in our like San Mateo office.
Chloe Lannert: like where the parking lot was getting full. So I got kind of that exposure and wanted to start something on my own. So when I wasn't doing that job, I was working on like this Mvp kind of like mobile app and I was using a dev shop. I didn't have technical co-founder. And I started applying to different accelerator programs.
Chloe Lannert: And I got into blue startups. And I thought it was interesting to kind of get away to Hawaii. That's where it's based. And the guy who founded it is the guy behind Tetris, the business guy behind Tetris.
Chloe Lannert: and it's at the Tetris office, and for me it was a way to, you know. Get out, kind of be focused. And we went out to blue startups. We built our Mvp. We did the demo day we raised a couple 100,000.
Chloe Lannert: I also had a co-founder at the time who is not technical, and within about 7 months of us raising our 1st convertible notes, and I'm going to get to some interesting points. On this
Chloe Lannert: he left, and I had dead equity on the cap table. Yes, it was vested, but back then they were doing like a 4 year vest, and you know, 1st year clips. So there was still a sizable amount of debt equity, and
Chloe Lannert: how much equity did he have? Like, roughly, like 10%? Okay. And how did you find him? So you're at?
Chloe Lannert: So he was someone I knew from growing up, and it blew startups at the time. They had 2 people minimum to apply, and some of the people that I worked at Bright Edge. They were making good money.
Chloe Lannert: They were younger in their careers. It's hard to leave, you know, my 1st couple of years of selling. I didn't even take salary. So I went full on just saving so I could actually, you know, hire better people, and I'll get to some of that. But I I also have a lot of mistakes. Too, and I want to talk about like not having a technical co-founder
Chloe Lannert: and a co-founder who ended up leaving in the 1st year I called a double whammy and kind of what I learned from that. So when we started selling, we were using a dev shop, and I didn't have a technical co-founder. And early on, when you're building the foundation of your platform, you're making oftentimes like key architectural decisions about your product, your tech stack and everything.
Chloe Lannert: And for us it didn't really hurt us. We were able to use dev shops for a couple of years at first, st but where it hurt us is when we had a big partnership with a publicly traded company we were bringing on quadruple the amount of dealers we would normally
Chloe Lannert: bring on, and we had to spend like 4 months, nothing but technical debt. And that means we can't have feature parity with some of the competition. It really slows us down from like getting clients who want certain features functionality.
Chloe Lannert: So it's interesting about technical debt. You might not notice it at 1st you might be able to crutch along for even a couple of years. But if if you get a big partnership or something that's way different than the usage you've had before. You might run into new things. And we we ended up having to really hire a very expensive developer us, based obviously, to do a lot of refactoring. And you know, that took a lot of our budget. So when was this? So
Chloe Lannert: now I'm gonna get to this, the second biggest mistake, the second biggest mistake, and this will answer your question.
Chloe Lannert: And it sounds amazing. On paper.
Chloe Lannert: We have this huge, publicly traded company.
Chloe Lannert: They want to do a white label of our product. At 1st I asked them, for, you know, 500,000 to 1 million dollar investment, and they tried, and there was like. Well, our board doesn't want us to do that. I was like, what about a license fee? I charged them a couple $100,000 license fee upfront made them agree to bring on a hundred pilot dealers and pay their subscription for a year. So on paper, we're getting basically a free investment
Chloe Lannert: sounds good. Right? We're gonna get a ton of dealers on our platform
Chloe Lannert: sounds good. So we start spending a lot of time with this publicly traded company, and
Chloe Lannert: I don't know if I should name it. This company is called true car. So our Crm was being like white labeled as true car convert, and the problem is, we had to build 2 new mobile apps and Ios and Android version.
Chloe Lannert: We had to have a full white labeled version of their product with their Logos on everything. Think about all the technical resources that you're investing for this one partner that could be pretty potential like good fit.
Chloe Lannert: They ended up even getting to almost 30% of our revenue.
Chloe Lannert: And we had one month where we sold like 75 dealers. And that's when we started having the impact on our system. And then we started diagnosing what was happening, and we figured out we had to do a huge re architecture project
Chloe Lannert: on top of that true car. Is there anything that we should go, I mean, for us, like
Chloe Lannert: we built
Chloe Lannert: a very monolithic project. At 1st we didn't have a lot of micro services. We had a lot of sequel queries. So we were like an Mvc kind of
Chloe Lannert: not legacy, somewhat legacy app, you know, by today's standards.
Chloe Lannert: So that costs slowness. So dealers would be using the product. And then suddenly, 4 0 4. Error, 404 error.
Chloe Lannert: And you know it's not us anymore. It's a publicly traded company's name. They're getting the support calls. And I just want you guys to think about the investment. We went out and trained 20 of their sales team, their customer support team it
Chloe Lannert: in. We were a small team. We were probably like 7 people at the time, and we're doing our normal day to day business selling, automotive selling Crm, and then we're doing true cars business, and we have to say I have the same hours as true car.
Chloe Lannert: Right? And then is we get later in that partnership. And we're doing all this rearchitecture work their problems for us.
Chloe Lannert: That company starts having problems. Their biggest partner drops them. The CEO of the company gets fired, the Vp. Of engineering, the Vp. Of architecture, the Vp of sales who's working on our project.
Chloe Lannert: and I am kind of deadly sick at the time. I just I got sick from all the stress, and I get a call from executive. That company dropping the bomb. We're gonna have to in your partnership, which is almost 30% of your revenue.
Chloe Lannert: We're not going to be be able to pay for all those dealers.
Chloe Lannert: You're in the middle of re-architecting your whole product.
Chloe Lannert: You have put so much effort. They've been made, you know. Hey? We might acquire you. You know, that's a carrot. A lot of these like white label public companies would do so like that decision of not having a technical co-founder making a lot of technical mistakes earlier on.
Chloe Lannert: It didn't hit us till we had a huge partnership opportunity.
Chloe Lannert: so that that was part of it. But the other issue is like, I know, so many startups that I've talked to that have white labeled and got into a similar trap because your resources at a startup is so limited, your focus is so limited, and they're going to be like, Oh, well, we just released true car. Usaa templates. We want you to do this whole lengthy customization because they're 30% of our business. And you need to do that.
Chloe Lannert: I saw someone raise a hand, I think.
Chloe Lannert: how do you sort of balance this notion, because I think, from what I gather, the hard part of this one was the white label side rather than supply. Sometimes inside of what they tell you.
Chloe Lannert: Actually, if you've got one poor customer, you can go really, really deep with them. That's fine focusing them. And then you can scale right? So how do you balance that notion between going deep with one customer versus
Chloe Lannert: overly relying?
Chloe Lannert: So we made this mistake of over over relying. We think we might get acquired. They even interviewed our whole engineering team. Their CEO, you know, invited me out to like Santa Monica. We had $2,000 dinners like you think in your head everything's going right. And then, because of that, once that happened to me.
Chloe Lannert: I never ever wanted to rely on one single customer be extra granular with one single customer, even take on that like white label, because your like, your goals and their goals are totally different. And unless they're gonna acquire you, you're setting yourself up for a lot of like
Chloe Lannert: technical debt later on, too. Because then we built this system, we had to support the dealers for a period of time.
Chloe Lannert: you know afterwards, and have, like 4 different mobile apps that we had to constantly update. So I don't know if I'm answering the question, but my my big learning was not to go very deep. If you're doing a vertical Sas. B. 2 B company, and you have a tam where it's like almost 100,000 dealers, you know, independent New Rv. etc, in the Us. Like there's a large like market. Why, you know, get so
Chloe Lannert: myopic about one potential big partner. Because
Chloe Lannert: shit happens at the startup world. And it's it's it's a really big bet on your company, and when this happened it caused co-founder issues. It caused one of our employees to leave. Once. True car dropped us, you know. I even went through depression. Because of this it was like I almost lost my company, and what I had to do. We were running out of kind of money because we were relying on true car, 30% of our Rev. Immediately gone.
Chloe Lannert: So what I did, I started going on Linkedin. I wanted to find there were 5 guys who started similar auto companies to me and sold them, and I messaged all of them on Linkedin. One of them replied.
Chloe Lannert: He started a similar company. He was same age as me. I went out to meet him in Kansas City.
Chloe Lannert: told him about the white label everything that happened. I walked away with a quarter 1 million dollar check
Chloe Lannert: saved our whole entire company.
Chloe Lannert: Find the people selling to the people you're selling to. I know we've been talking about it. No, I I knew if I could tell him the story, maybe he would be interested, and if not him, I'd have to get one of the other 4, because I knew only someone who really understood Crm
Chloe Lannert: would make an investment in a company where you you don't have the best financials anymore, because you've taken a big hit like I knew, like someone who really understood the business would appreciate and understood what happened. And he had the same thing happen to him
Chloe Lannert: in his company, where he was over reliant on a white label, thought it was going to get them to acquisition, make his company, etc, etc, and the issue with the white label. It wasn't necessarily that they were like reusing your tech but it was those like custom sort of features in that time suck right the U.S.A. thing like, do you have other examples of stuff that
Chloe Lannert: you have to do for the white label that
Chloe Lannert: was hindering the rest of your
Chloe Lannert: business development. To better illustrate. Yeah, they wanted us to make a custom dashboard just to track true car leads. They have publicly traded companies that are competitors, auto tradercars.com. So we built specific tracking functionality just for true car didn't build it for car gurus. You know, the other kind of players. So we built a whole module that essentially really became worthless after a period of time.
Chloe Lannert: and they also, when I was partnered with them they wanted. I I did
Chloe Lannert: a lot of speaking engagements at conferences to get dealers because I I could pitch them on my story, and they made me review my public decks that I'd be presenting at dealer conferences. They would give me notes during that period of time. On speaking engagements I was doing because they didn't want me to talk about car gurus or carscom or auto trader, their direct competitors in a dealer focused presentation, even though dealers know. Hey, you're just talking about this one vendor.
Chloe Lannert: but it's question. So in your initial contract with them.
Chloe Lannert: what was declared in and out of scope, both from a technical side in terms of stuff like you mentioned, like pitching, and outside of just the ad itself. So in our actual docs that we had them sign it was very high level. We didn't get specific into technical details, what we would do versus what they would do because they know
Chloe Lannert: you're a small company. We're giving you hundreds of thousands of dollars. We're gonna give you 20 sales people to train and sell your product. We're losing hundreds of thousands just on that side on top of investment. So if there was almost like a handshake, understanding that, like, you're gonna kind of play ball, do customizations to us.
Chloe Lannert: you could say that that's a mistake, but it's really hard to define everything that could be in scope or out of scope. Technically, when you've never worked with this company before had no idea they want this whole dashboard. And you're just wanting you're at the time thinking, Oh, my God, I could get a free investment, basically, and get a ton of customers, and maybe they'll buy us. So you could say there were some blinders around that. But I think just at the time, like
Chloe Lannert: we had so many meetings with their engineering teams to. To get to that point we were building these custom dashboards. It would be hard to define upfront.
Chloe Lannert: I don't know if that answers it well. But at the time that that was kind of our thought process on the technical side, yeah. And then on the non-technical side. Was it the same thing like tacit understanding that?
Chloe Lannert: Well, what I did is I did make them agree to pay for a full year for their subscription. So on the business side, I did get that because the concern was, you have a customer, B, 2 B. Crm product, and they're only on there one or 2 months. They don't get the buy in. Maybe they don't
Chloe Lannert: have as much like investment into it, but if, like, it's guaranteed for a year like they're they're gonna use it more. And I felt like the thing for me was to not just say, Hey, just sell it month to month like we sell it. I wanted that guarantee for true car, and really at a high level is a good deal on paper for us.
Chloe Lannert: but the the thing that like blew everything up. I I genuinely feel like. Even with our architecture issues, we would have got acquired. But when the whole C-suite is like kind of cleaned out because they lost their biggest customer. Then it it changes the whole dynamic of everything
Chloe Lannert: in the future. Would you not do white labels, or would you just not over rely on? If I was doing a white label I wouldn't. I probably wouldn't do anything like more than maybe. And I I'd be I. If I was doing white label. It'd be like
Chloe Lannert: true car convert powered by Selly. We would do support. They wouldn't have to call true car and have this special line just for our Crm pilot.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, it's because the problem is like customers were complaining. If there's a 4 0 4 error. And then, yeah, like some things that that we would change in in the true car convert app wouldn't make sense on like the selling production as well
Chloe Lannert: in different shop.
Chloe Lannert: Sorry? Yeah. You could get caught into that if you're a small company and their carrot is, hey? We might buy you at a crazy multiple.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. And the other thing, I think, is the variation between the different customers like, if you're going in that deep with a customer who is representative of the larger market of customers you want to go after, and every feature you build for them is applicable outside of that setting like the U.S.A. Stuff, like no one else would dashboard for their lead tracking just for them.
Chloe Lannert: So I think it like, I'm
Chloe Lannert: that level of over indexing where you're building something that is not useful outside of that customer. Yeah. Yeah. But imagine if the CEO calls, he's like, Yeah, I just spoke to our Vp of engineering. I think you guys need to build this, and can you build it as soon as we have a conference coming up in June? Can you focus on this in your life? That's the challenge. I think so. Did you have a question.
Chloe Lannert: What you've done is amazing. And so maybe you feel that in hindsight. But it's also part of the journey, and so congratulations for for what you need and for winning that deal that allowed you to.
Chloe Lannert: I have a question more around, like What is, How did you?
Chloe Lannert: So I understand that obviously it was a great. It looked like a great deal at the time, and then it turned out not to be. But how did you think about the price? And how do you think about the fact that it was a great deal. Did you kind of what was in your mind to arrive to the price? Did you arrive to the price? Did they come? Well, yeah. So I
Chloe Lannert: wanted a 500 to 1 million dollar investment going in. And they were pushing back at 500. But I was able to get them to agree to do a couple of 100,000. Just write it off totally. It's like a license fee. So originally I wanted 500 to 1 million. So technically in my mind, I got less than I wanted
Chloe Lannert: the the year. I just knew the year from our own sales that, like we need to get some level of a strong commitment, and not just sell these customers, you know, month to month, and have 2 cars subsidize that. So all that was my idea kind of in my head, but I felt like I got less than I wanted. But at the end of the day, yeah.
Chloe Lannert: was because it was non diluting your your the gaps you you need from your from your business to execute what you want it to do, and plus it was kind of a customer. So it was giving you like additional additional revenue.
Chloe Lannert: So it sounds to me, and I'm kind of making stuff up that it's you solved a problem with that money. That was not
Chloe Lannert: the problem that they were asking you to solve. That was to be eventually something that was very different, you know. Well, I'll tell you something. They partnered with another company, a website company, no license fee, no investment, and sold it month to month. That founder had a similar. His deal blew up. At the same time they were simultaneously doing everything, and he felt Mega screwed and actually tried to sue them.
Chloe Lannert: How did you find out about that. Well, he told me. I it it true. Cars booth I would be. Hey, we have a little celly setup. And then it was a website company. They had his setup, too.
Chloe Lannert: but, like he was, he was also enticed. Oh, God, I could sell it to them, and he's even easier. Hey? Let's just sell month to month. I don't need a license fee like, I'll dump everything into this.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. So within the timeline, like you decide to white label. When when is this blue startups in 2,014? Yeah, well, we graduate, Jan. 2,015. We started this partnership in 2017. So this was within 2 years of of like being in business, and really, you know, is founder led sales. It's just me at the time selling and being able to have true car sell. It was.
Chloe Lannert: you know, really interesting proposition at the time? Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: And then from there, how
Chloe Lannert: how far, after signing, did things start to blow up? Did the tech debt start to blow up? And then so tech deck or sorry tech debt was probably a year into it because we had to build true car convert, you know, have so many meetings with their team.
Chloe Lannert: And and another thing, I noticed that this company they would fly out, everyone to Santa Monica put them in $500 night rooms. They they did not watch expenses, and I I saw that firsthand, and I told my whole team I was like, we're never doing this stuff. This is crazy.
Chloe Lannert: But they were really about like kind of being flashy and spending money at the time.
Chloe Lannert: And so so year end, we start facing the technical issues. Then, 6 months later, kind of the blow up, and then next 6 months wind down of the 2 year program.
Chloe Lannert: Right? Okay? Interesting. So I was curious about
Chloe Lannert: said 30%. So you had the other 70% coming from other- other companies.
Chloe Lannert: How did this affect those
Chloe Lannert: right? How were you able to maintain the other 70% while you were committing everything to 30%. How much of what you built for the 30% translated
Chloe Lannert: like the almost, let's say, if the 30%, almost nothing like that, we build tech wise would have been utilized. General audience, because it's so one vendor like specific.
Chloe Lannert: The we did have higher churn because of this. Why? Because we still had to do a wind down as part of the, you know contract that took a lot of time in itself. We had to individually let, and when I say we oh, this is a lot of me, like small team size at the time, like 7 or so.
Chloe Lannert: and
Chloe Lannert: we lost a lot of customers. That was probably one of our higher attrition years, because we just couldn't focus on pushing the ball forward as much for our own customers, because a lot of that wind down time took my time. Engineers, etc.
Chloe Lannert: yeah. The other thing is when you said talking about like kind of a technical co-founder versus a dev shop.
Chloe Lannert: My question is about 2 things, speed.
Chloe Lannert: And if you look back.
Chloe Lannert: what makes you feel that if you had a technical co-founder that that wouldn't have happened. And
Chloe Lannert: kind of what what is to say? Like like, I think there's value in speed.
Chloe Lannert: So how do you. How do you in your mind value like? Why does the co-founder technical co-founder bridge that I think everyone here has? So. But I'm just curious how you would do that.
Chloe Lannert: My idea of a technical co-founder and I ended up hiring someone like this later on is someone who could build your Mvp. Themselves. Like no other intervention of the developer, they could literally build your 1st web App. Mvp. They're going to make the right architectural decisions like longer term, and they have some ability to eventually like lead, a smaller team of engineers. Because if we had a technical co-founder plus a dev shop
Chloe Lannert: that that would have worked a little better. The problem, though, with the Dev shop to give you context, they're in India. So I had to do 10 Pm. Dev. Call every night to like 12 or one in the morning. There was a lack of understanding of business context, like a lot of them had never bought a car gone to a dealership. You know. There's all this like business context in that regard. But what we did later on, we actually
Chloe Lannert: outsource and went offshore differently. So when I had
Chloe Lannert: Vp. Of product in house a really strong like engineering.
Chloe Lannert: how did I get there? Right? So you you had. You were with the Dev shop. Yeah, signed that contract that kind of in some way. Save your business.
Chloe Lannert: How did you? How did you find your way? So once we were able to get the $250, or sorry $250,000 investment from Matt Watson. Then I was able to hire a proper kind of engineering leader, who could also be an individual contributor. Matt Watson is a unicorn because he's a CEO and CTO. He went into our code himself. He
Chloe Lannert: worked with like the 1st engineering hire that we had. He helped us get this first, st like us, based engineering hire because he worked with him before his last Crm. Company. This guy had already built automotive Crm at this guy's company. So we knew a lot about the industry. The business context.
Chloe Lannert: Once we had someone like that, we actually did do a lot of offshoring. I opened our 1st office in the Philippines in 2019, like we literally hired like individual contributor developers in the Philippines, because, you know, like for 3,000 or so month, you could get a full stack dev.
Chloe Lannert: We had a strong engineering leader in House. We had to be very detailed and product requirement docs. There was a lot of back and forth. There was still mistakes, but it was done much more thoughtfully than not having a technical co-founder and kind of starting with the dev shop.
Chloe Lannert: And also when someone's already built an automotive Crm. They know all of the mistakes from the previous automotive Crm they built so when they came in house. Oh, you shouldn't do this, we we ran into this error or issue with, you know, multiple databases, etc, etc.
Chloe Lannert: so like that. That was huge for us. But we wouldn't have been able to hire someone if we didn't have that 250,000 come in who could really take us? And and Matt, who invested in me. He said that he at the same time he had a second company, and he's using like Philippines development, and he sold it to PE. Firm.
Chloe Lannert: How did you? How did you recruit?
Chloe Lannert: Yes, no, it came from Matt directly. He he intro to. He had worked with that guy. He went into our code at 1st kind of found some of the issues. And then he's like, you know what I know, someone who's going to be perfect for you
Chloe Lannert: and connected me, which was a blessing, which was, I mean, they connect connecting you is one thing, and to actually close and bring that person on. What do you think sold that person? Did you feel like there was a part of either division, or was it like a cap like you were willing to pay. How did you make a decision? How much cash you wanted to get cash heavy cash heavy? The reason why
Chloe Lannert: this guy was in Kansas City had a large family
Chloe Lannert: advanced solutions. The company Matt started. He didn't give anyone equity, so no one was. He wasn't expecting it. I I mentioned the equity, and for him it's like, Hey, that's kind of nice.
Chloe Lannert: But you know I have a family. I'm here, you know Kansas City like, and he was sold on the vision because his best times in his career was working with Matt on automotive Crm. Now he gets to do it again. No one's above him. He gets to call the shots he gets to not make all of the same mistakes that in his mind were made before the previous company, and he also got to work a lot deeper in products which
Chloe Lannert: you know he didn't have the opportunity before. So for him, it's like
Chloe Lannert: I he's like, Hey, I'll do this if the money is right, of course, first, st just because I have expenses, etc. But I like the vision. I'll take less than what I make today, which he did. But it's still high, you know, salary, wise, relevant to what I was paying everyone else.
Chloe Lannert: So you use all of these, like all of this to
Chloe Lannert: convince him while you are hiring him, or you're saying this after his experience.
Chloe Lannert: Well, just the fact that Matt.
Chloe Lannert: who he worked for before intro him to me kind of built some credibility interest in intrigue, because that's like, in my mind the definition of like a warm referral.
Chloe Lannert: No like when you were when you were hiring him when you were interviewing him. Did you say all these things to him that here you'll get to all the shots, or whatever you told us. Well, 1st I kind of I I incorporated that, you know. I asked him like you know what was fun about building bin solutions, said, what was fun? You know. What do you not like about it?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, now, here's the selling pitch incorporating the 2. Nice. Did you have to talk to Matt before and like, get this sort of Matt had to help convince this guy, hey? This guy's reliable like I've invested in him. So he was a huge part of giving someone comfort to go from like larger software company, great benefits, etc, has family to
Chloe Lannert: high risk, you know. Startup in a lot of ways, and I was also able to hire a sales leader, too, and get myself out of being an individual contributor.
Chloe Lannert: Salesperson, slash running, you know a lot of the other components of the company?
Chloe Lannert: Did that investor also support with that recruitment process? No. So the guy that I hired for sales. When I did a speaking engagement he saw me years and years like 3 years prior. He saw me, gave me his card. It's like I love what you're doing. Call me if you ever need a Vp of sales. And it happened that the timing was perfect where he was leaving his previous company, and he's a he's a character. He is former marine
Chloe Lannert: mega alpha, like workout, like crazy type guy, but that's perfect for auto sales, and like what we were doing. And he, you know, sales, I think, easier
Chloe Lannert: to recruit, for if you know, because you have a smaller base, a lot of it's, you know, comp driven through commissions. And if they kind of understand the space and it's sold similar software, they could more connect the dots like in their head, where? Okay, I I could probably make that amount of commission I've sold Crm before, whereas I think the engineer with the family like that's the that's the tougher, you know, sale. But one thing about true car. I forgot to mention
Chloe Lannert: the reason I I was able to get a lot of clients early on. I'd go to all these small dealer conferences. I give speaking engagements. Try and show them. Hey? Here's how you do Internet marketing, you know, etc, etc. Try and educate them. We'd always have people come up. I'd set Demos from that. And one day, when I was speaking in Georgia.
Chloe Lannert: the CEO of true car was in the audience I had no idea, and he came up to me after
Chloe Lannert: and said we should. We should work together in some way. I'd love to talk to you in. La, okay.
Chloe Lannert: how did you get these 1st customers? First? st Customers are me cold calling people because my 1st job before that was making 120 cold calls a day. So I had no problem going on. Google maps looking at certain areas, you know, like I, I'd ask. You know, could I speak with the general manager, general manager? We get on the phone. I'd be like.
Chloe Lannert: Hey, I'm Zach, you know. I'm actually a founder of this, you know, Auto Software Company. I'm working with a lot of dealers in Selma, Alabama right now. And I was on your website, and I saw that you have, you know, 100 vehicles in stock. We actually work with dealers just like you. I try and give them a custom pitch. I'd be just on the computer looking at their website trying to find, oh, I saw you have the Carfax integration on your website. We work with them to like some way to build report it took
Chloe Lannert: like, here's we have Sdrs. So if you do like 60 calls in a day, you're gonna set like 2 dealer appointments, and you're gonna have a 50%, no show rate. And one of them are gonna show up. And then one of the 2. And then you're gonna have like a 25 close. That's like kind of the nature of the numbers. But for me, because I already
Chloe Lannert: yeah. But luckily, you know, there's tens of thousands of dealers, and they don't remember you. If they hang up on you or something, and you call them the next week, they won't even remember it. You know the thing is because I I got rejected so many times during a previous cold calling. That was the easier part. Here's the problem. I would sell a dealer, and we're still building the software with any dev shopping. It doesn't work. Well.
Chloe Lannert: The problem was, the software was still being built while I was selling it selling. But what I proved, though, and what blue startups asked us to do. At 1st we surveyed 100 customers.
Chloe Lannert: and we saw there's product market fit. There's interest I could. My problem was I could sell a dealer on this, but we didn't always deliver early on on the software side of it.
Chloe Lannert: What? What could you have done differently? Because it sounds like, what was the alternative?
Chloe Lannert: For example? No, the alternative to cold calling the alternative to to not having a technical co-founder. That's because you you I mean, you didn't have a technical co-founder. So you could have not started that company, or you could have not done the. So I'm I'm trying to kind of get get.
Chloe Lannert: Is there like a decision you made at some point where it turned out, it turns out that there were decisions that had negative consequences for you down down the road. But is there anything
Chloe Lannert: you could have done differently, given the resources you had. And what specifically, yeah. So this is still like what you wish you had done. I want to add to that part of that that, I think, is
Chloe Lannert: specific one. Would you have it? Looking back, do you think.
Chloe Lannert: in those same shoes, now that we know what you know would you have not? Would you have waited to start it, or waited to go out into market until you 1st recruited a technical co-founder where you 1st did certain things that you know that you should have done now? Or do you think that it was actually still much better to get started without all the things you needed, and then figure it out along the way.
Chloe Lannert: I genuinely think if I had a technical co-founder, instead of maybe raising half of that 6, 51, st the 350,000. We could have raised a million, a million 5. I did get feedback early on that. People did pass because I didn't have a technical co-founder.
Chloe Lannert: So I genuinely think that I, if I were able to have one or convince someone to come with me rather than the 1st non-technical co-founder that we would be able to raise a seed round. Still good terms. More capital. That would make stuff a lot easier because for me, like part, I'd run it on my credit card didn't take salaried first.st There's a lot of unnecessary stress.
Chloe Lannert: I think at first, st because we didn't. We weren't as well capitalized is some of the competition. I feel like we could have rather that I was very niche with Crm. I felt like. If if we had
Chloe Lannert: better product at first, st maybe a little wider in terms of feature set, we could have got more dealers. One thing I focused on early on. And and this is what the company was built on. I I focused on used car dealers. So new car dealers like Honda Toyota. There's a lot of software vendors going after them because they're more like enterprise, whereas, like a used car, dealers like Smb account.
Chloe Lannert: And I feel like we could have gone, maybe even to franchise at first, st like some of the smaller franchise, because what I learned later on, just selling a lot of dealers, there were smaller franchises. We had a more developed product that would be open to using ours. And they're much higher, Mrr, you know, customers. So
Chloe Lannert: I think that, like all of that like foundation would have, you know, helped us be a larger company, have less churn. Yeah. So my question is, and I don't know if this is similar to what you're asking. I
Chloe Lannert: in hindsight.
Chloe Lannert: the 1st year you could argue you could almost write off. We made so many mistakes, so it wouldn't have hurt me if I waited a little longer, maybe tried to like convince recruit. Someone is a technical co-founder, but I think at the time, being a younger guy. I just wanted to go. It's like, Look.
Chloe Lannert: I'll figure that out later. I'm going to sell this customer. We're going to build this, you know by next month, like it'll take a week to onboard them. I was just like, let's just go. Let's do it now like no excuses. That was kind of my mentality being very young back then, and not like, Hey, I couldn't find the technical. But I will be
Chloe Lannert: the technical. Go further
Chloe Lannert: if you were back in your shoes back then, would you? What decision would you make today?
Chloe Lannert: I mean, if I started it today, just like, here's what I would have done
Chloe Lannert: I before even coding my product. I would, and we use this now for mock ups to show dealers. I would have used something like replet to get early feedback and build like almost an Mvp. And have dealers use it because we had to redesign modules, because.
Chloe Lannert: even though I worked at a dealership. I didn't myself always know the best, like workflows to create. And we created some things that didn't make sense where a dealership, you know, pointed that out to us. And I think now, with a lot of the AI tools you could show like, really. And I could show you one. I built, too, just to show clients. But like you could build a great Mvp. For someone to play around with, give feedback on iterate on that.
Chloe Lannert: before even bringing it to someone technical to build like you could really do a lot of like product market fit research
Chloe Lannert: so much easier now than back then, where you know from like 10 Pm. Till me falling asleep was my time to talk with developers to build. You know our Mvp.
Chloe Lannert: And I I just think like
Chloe Lannert: that will save so much time.
Chloe Lannert: and we do it now. Now, at our companies we'll show a mock up that kind of looks like our platform using like replet, or V. 0 is what you know my team uses as well. We'll just show them like, what do you think about this? What do you think? If we added this button here like we could get real time feedback before even building anything. Where in the past you would make changes to your platform. You'd build something you'd show like a Beta version to, you know, select amount of like users
Chloe Lannert: and like it's just so much easier in that regard nowadays. Also.
Chloe Lannert: let me tell you, convertible notes 1 1 mistake I had now. They have safes, safes are awesome. They're easy to to raise on, etc. There's something called a convertible note because safes weren't as popular.
Chloe Lannert: So one thing I did one investor. Okay, one investor, a $10,000 check, the smallest check that I ever took, and I was like, I don't know, should I? You know I'd raised most of it, and I wanted to get to like an even number. And there's 1 guy who's willing to do $10,000 check. I was like, all right, you know. I'll bring this guy on a convertible node. He's accredited investor. He's gonna understand this.
Chloe Lannert: And he ended up being the most difficult investor questions weekly. He literally had me enforce me to pay a convertible note back. I had to get sign off from all the investors that I was paying this one guy's note back, and the amount that I spent in legal fees was more than the actual investment.
Chloe Lannert: So be careful about vetting some investors, because, like especially, I think.
Chloe Lannert: whether small or big check like you could potentially get someone who I'm not saying harasses you, but like has tons of calls every week. Because in this case the guy was older wasn't working anymore. Just you know, this was his thing. And
Chloe Lannert: it's just painful like and embarrassing. Wait, you're paying this guy back, you know. One guy was like, well, well, can I? Can I get paid back to? And I had to walk him off the ledge, you know. So that that was the problem with the convertible note. And I had to extend our convertible notes
Chloe Lannert: 3 times.
Chloe Lannert: And yeah, actually, let's dig into this no, there wasn't actually trying to think
Chloe Lannert: I think there was. You're right, like 10% interest. So you paid him more than 10,000, you injury.
Chloe Lannert: and I paid a law firm like almost 20.
Chloe Lannert: It's been like 32,000 bucks.
Chloe Lannert: I know. That's why people say you got to be careful about small check investors. And at the time, like, you know, I didn't really comprehend that. Now I do like it. You just have to be careful who you bring in, and with convertible notes back then, like I was imagine having this conversation 3 times.
Chloe Lannert: and they're like, Whoa! Are things still going well and like we had to do it when true car happened, too, on top of all that to a convertible note extension. That's why, when safe came into play, and what I raised quarter 1 million on safe is like so much easier. But blue startups gave us a convertible note. There's no problems with that. It's just like, if you have an investor who maybe has too much time. Or, yeah, was that that person's first? st No check? No, no. So their retirement is part of the Hawaii Angel Investor group. So
Chloe Lannert: yeah, accredited investor is a pretty poor term, like the way to find is very poor. It's literally if you have. If you've made more than $200,000 for the last 2 years, or have an excess of 1 million in assets outside your primary residence test, you get a certificate. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: So on that same note about the investor. Are there ways that you would identify red flags from investors, you know. Some founders, I know are is bold to say there's a very good chance. You're going to lose all your money
Chloe Lannert: like they will say that to an investor, just to see is this the right person who's made enough startup investments where they get this. I bet you if I said that to this guy he would pass.
Chloe Lannert: And I think that if if someone's doing a lot of venture investments, they understand the numbers game and that only a small percent are going to work. And they understand that. But I for someone like that? A small check? I would, I would, you know, ask that for a larger check. I wouldn't right. I think they understand that just just making a larger investment. But if you're getting someone like smaller check just making it clear to them like, this is a super high risk investment.
Chloe Lannert: you know, in like, not in those exact words, but try and like portray that, and just just check them like, you know, is is this really something for you. And I think if you're doing bigger checks, like, if everyone's investing like 100,000,
Chloe Lannert: I don't think you're gonna have this problem because they know what they're doing. More than likely they made other investments. I think this is a risk factor just with smaller checks. If you take a smaller check, I think it should be from someone who's really value. Add whether that's like someone who has a lot of industry experience like something very unique that justifies taking a smaller amount of money
Chloe Lannert: or, yeah.
Chloe Lannert: sorry. And then just go on that. I think it's important, because I love the questions. And more than you know, the guy who was following you. I feel like you have a lot of investors difference. And there's a problem of the guy harassing you. But there's also, like. I suppose the reactions to the true car incidents were a bit different among your investors, and so I feel like
Chloe Lannert: you have different relationships with them. And so, maybe more than just. You know. You don't know what startups like, what, how do you identify? Actually a true investor that are going to have your back, and they introduce you to like your head of engineering. And all this stuff. So how do you identify that?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I mean, like our 1st investor, who was also Hawaii angel like. When I was working at the accelerator program he was walking around at night to see what companies were there at night.
Chloe Lannert: and he came up to me. He had a really in-depth conversation. He'd done a lot of research, and he told me, I want to be your 1st investor like that's such like a positive signal. Someone like Matt Watson, who's literally been there done that before. Some of the other Hawaii angels were Sas founders. So they built Saas companies. They understand it.
Chloe Lannert: Some of the others were retirees in Hawaii who are high net worth, and happen to occasionally make investments, and I think if you talk to someone and they had done like research on you, they care like they're a little interested themselves. Whereas you, if you're really hard selling someone just to come in just to fill X amount of
Chloe Lannert: capital like I think you're, you're more loose, maybe, and willing to compromise. But, like I. If I was doing another company, I would like my 1st round rather than a friends and family. I'd want to get like industry people
Chloe Lannert: to invest, and I think they would do decent terms, too.
Chloe Lannert: I have a question, yeah, on your like, the strap. Yeah thing after 6 50 k, so it was almost like a seat strap, right? You could call it seat strap, but it was like 3, 50 or so, and then, like 3 50 later, 2 50 of that from that. Yes, I mean I can. I can relate to it because we have right now raised almost the same, and I don't want to raise more like. I wanted to have this company as almost like a bootstrap from now.
Chloe Lannert: because I have a problem with authority, and
Chloe Lannert: it becomes very weird if somebody's trying to tell me things, I'm self-aware. So I realize that. So so so how was so? How was that like your investors? Did they push you
Chloe Lannert: to to raise money? And you were like, no, I want to raise money. Yeah, no. We were. We were often pushed, asked when we're going to do another round so we could convert the convertible notes to equity. So we were peppered from time to time with questions like that, because from investor standpoint.
Chloe Lannert: I like some investors are okay. With that, I think back then.
Chloe Lannert: not not everyone would be is okay with us, just bluntly saying, Hey, we're we're kind of bootstrapping this. We're gonna extend your convertible notes every 18 months.
Chloe Lannert: and we might not have like a hundred X outcome like a lot of people. I think when they're getting into like a venture investment or a startup investment, they're thinking like this is going to be way better than investing in stocks, crypto trading options. This is going to be like potentially big return. I know a lot won't work out, but like it's they're going in like almost with that mindset. So when you tell them they want to bootstrap
Chloe Lannert: it, I think
Chloe Lannert: some people are probably okay with it. They're like, Hey, I get what you're trying to do. You could build it that way. I'm fine. With that outcome.
Chloe Lannert: Other people might be like, Hey, that that might take longer. I want like a moonshot, or I want like something that's gonna be just just a crazy outcome. And that's why I'm putting this more risky investment here, when you know, you can make the argument like, some investors to just say, Hey, I'm gonna buy spacex secondaries. That's gonna be my like risk. So like, there's a lot you're competing against to get someone's money
Chloe Lannert: for me, like when I talked to Matt he got it. He's in the industry. He didn't care about it being 100 x. But I think that you know it just depends on like kind of who you're talking to from investor standpoint, if they understand that. And if they're good with that potential exit I was actually talking about after the fund is, let's say they're funded in one year down the line.
Chloe Lannert: You are not raising another round, and you're just
Chloe Lannert: saying that, you know I'm going to depend on revenue. No more fundraise one year goes, and 2 year goals, and then they start, you know.
Chloe Lannert: maybe pressuring you to raise another large round. So yeah, they can make an exit. I had to deal with this every 18 months, because I had to renew these convertible notes 3 times, and they'd be, when are you going to raise? Why can't you just raise an equity round. I knew this company. They just raised a 2 million dollars round, and they're doing the same revenue as you. Why can't you do that. Yeah, yeah, I would get asked that all the time.
Chloe Lannert: And and what I said is, look like we're doing something different. You know, we've shown some profitability we're and I showed them some of the acquisitions in our space like this company did a 10 x. This company did a 6 x, and like tried to show them the vision that even though I'm doing something very niche and vertical focus, here's examples of it being a success. And oh, by the way. All these companies were bootstrapped, too.
Chloe Lannert: like Matt Watson's company. Think about this. He started it when he's 23 in Kansas City. He was the developer founder CEO.
Chloe Lannert: He bootstrapped it with his credit cards to 36 million dollars in arr.
Chloe Lannert: and then he sold it for a hundred 50 million, I see, and like that's. And I showed my
Chloe Lannert: once I had him come on, I think a lot of my investors is easier to extend that next convertible note. They're like, Wow, someone like that believes in you invested. And he was super hands on at first, st like even in our code, that rarely happens like
Chloe Lannert: someone like that typically is like more hands off. So that built a lot of, I think, comfort. But there were awkward conversations, even blue startups like, Hey, why don't you raise the equity round because this company and cohort 5 just raised this at that? Yeah, one more follow. The second part of this question is, were you?
Chloe Lannert: Were you not tempted to to raise around? Let's say you have definitely. It's good revenue. There are offers coming your way from investors, art investors
Chloe Lannert: tier one investors, and they are saying, Okay, take our check that time. How did you resist the temptation to
Chloe Lannert: good evening.
Chloe Lannert: You know it's interesting. I I've actually refused some money from investors like this one guy
Chloe Lannert: I did a I thing on Cnbc. He reached out to me. I went with Ryan, who's my Vp. Product out to his house, and he he bought the house of this former Nba player.
Chloe Lannert: and he was such a dick to all of his maids and everything in his house, and he was begging to invest. And I looked at my Vp engineering or sorry Vp product. And I was like, I just have a bad feeling about this guy. And I knew someone who took money from this guy. Later on. This guy ended up suing him.
Chloe Lannert: I just had that feeling. So I've actually denied. We got into actually another like Bay Area. Vc. Wanted to invest in us, but he wanted us to reset our options vesting.
Chloe Lannert: or found your shared destiny
Chloe Lannert: back to ground one if he was going to make a new investment. I said no to that. So like I've had opportunities. And then, when we were selling and I was running a PE process, we had interest in investment. But at that time I could get to that story later. You know, I was more ready to pursue, like
Chloe Lannert: I think, with P, they're doing like part cash, part equity. So it's not like full exit. They do give you a significant amount of money, more money than I ever made in my life. But you know there's still equity to keep you engaged, you know, longer term, and that like
Chloe Lannert: kind of, you know, final. If you could say acquisition.
Chloe Lannert: don't know if we do
Chloe Lannert: when you you said that you like made a list of like 4 people, that you were like these 5, that you were like. These are the potential people that might be good investors, and I think one of my biggest questions like, what was the scope of that? And then like, How long ago did Matt sell his company like? Was he like fresh off the sale like? No, he's like 7 years past selling. And how did you start that conversation.
Chloe Lannert: Linkedin? Cold message I I sent a similar message to basically my target list was people or guys who had founded an automotive Crm Saas startup and successfully sold it. There were only 5 that that I could like find easily on Linkedin and I. Similar messages, you know, like basically saying.
Chloe Lannert: I'm a young founder. I started selling a Crm company like yours when I was 23. You know, we're growing. We have hundreds of car dealerships using our product.
Chloe Lannert: I'd love to talk to you about my company 1st get on a quick zoom, then invites me out to Kansas City.
Chloe Lannert: and I built a presentation because I knew I'd have a chance like pitch him kind of on selling. So I just. And he was the only one who responded. So the other guys did that Linkedin in emails maybe deleted or still in their inbox. But so what's that outreach to them? Because you have to do like
Chloe Lannert: flash round to save yourself from?
Chloe Lannert: It wasn't around. I didn't pitch it to him like, Oh, we're doing a round raising for investors. I pitched it more as like I've custom reached out to you because I'm really impressed with what you've built, and I'm not looking for investors usually, but I'd love to have you a part of selling.
Chloe Lannert: and he's like, you know, I was thinking that, too, is, is, we were talking how much? He asked me, how much are you looking for? What's when you reached out to what was your goal. My goal was just to get on a call with him to see if he's someone who I would jive with, and if I would jive with them, then I could maybe talk about
Chloe Lannert: it 1st was like advisor like feedback, you know. That's like worst case. Maybe if you want to invest will be an advisor and someone who appreciates someone building a similar company at a similar age to them, you know. So when you sat down to send those 5 messages. You knew you needed a check.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, yeah, I had other people threatening to quit, too, like people knew what happened with true car. It was obvious it was obvious we were down. It's obvious we needed money. It's obvious. Sales were slower because we're doing this transition work.
Chloe Lannert: So like everyone was super aware. And it was a really weird climate, an uncomfortable climate for your team, with your team for many months.
Chloe Lannert: but so like when you want to get it's like, so like when you reach out to these kind of people, you almost need to have some kind of clear
Chloe Lannert: us. And that's what we've always been told to do that as well as if you reach out.
Chloe Lannert: Make it specific. Otherwise, like, why do I need to get
Chloe Lannert: on call with you. So this person successfully sold a company.
Chloe Lannert: Was there something else? That text that gave them a reason? I don't think there was anything amazing about how that was written, but I think the advantage of Linkedin. They look at your profile. Then they're like, Oh, this is a young guy. Oh, he's he started a company similar to me. Kind of interesting.
Chloe Lannert: Let me let me take a call with them. I think a lot of people, even if they're high caliber people like worth over 100 million dollars like this guy like they'll take your call in some cases, but just like sales. It's a number game like I did sales. So I know that I I if I reach out to hundreds of people and just one response, so be it.
Chloe Lannert: and then I'll reach out to them again, and they'll forget it because their inbox just gets filled up with other stuff. And I just
Chloe Lannert: shameless, shameless reach out, okay with people not responding to you, even though they read your message. Yeah, you kind of relied on. Okay, this person. There's a likeliness out of 5, these people. Someone's going to be curious. Exactly.
Chloe Lannert: What was that story like? Once you were able to get on a zoom call, what was that conversation like to get to Kansas. And then how did you close him like? What was that kind of story going? Because it it seems like it's a story of vulnerability like man. I'm like right now in like having the worst time.
Chloe Lannert: So that's not on the 1st zoom. The 1st zoom is, you know, just kind of hey? Thanks for taking time with me. Let me tell you a little bit about myself. Kind of give him my story. That caused him to talk a little bit about history. Oh, I same age as you, you know, when I started. And then, you know, we we've just really got along. Well, we weren't only talking about my business. We're just talking about the auto industry
Chloe Lannert: in general. Some of the problems for car dealers. You know. Is he doing anything in auto now, and that led to hey? You know, if if you're ever down, if you want to ever come out to Kansas, you know I'd love to meet you in person. I I usually don't get out of here like he really doesn't. He doesn't go to sf like so as like you know what? What about next week? I'd love to come out next week. Sure, you know, we'll get some barbecue when you come out. Wow!
Chloe Lannert: And then when I went out there. He's a you know. He's he's a had a nice office. He had a second company now that he was running.
Chloe Lannert: you know. Met him there. Then I started talking about kind of how like our story, you know, we white labeled with true car. And then he's like, Oh, I did a white label. It was a disaster, let me tell you what happened to me, and we spent just hours and hours together. And there's 1 thing I'm going to tell you a very similar situation, but I think we just connected on a personality level.
Chloe Lannert: He understood what we were doing. He had a big exit understood, it's possible. But the P. Firm that ended up acquiring me when I went out. The managing director for the P. Firm was like, Hey, we just acquired. You know, this other company called Auto Manager. I know you know them. I got like 30, 45min. We want to grab lunch.
Chloe Lannert: It turned to a 4h conversation.
Chloe Lannert: It turned to a 4h conversation where people were like, do you want some water like, you know the restaurant like in. Because, like
Chloe Lannert: I, I if you really captivate, I think investor, or instead, like someone's attention, they're gonna go beyond the meeting that they set. And and that's a really positive signal. If they're just spending hours with you super engaged like
Chloe Lannert: canceling their next meeting because they want to continue that conversation. That's how I like I knew like this is going to be a great like key opportunity to to work with this firm, because they already acquired, like the 1st company we integrate integrated with had a great discussion with them. And that's just like getting on a plane going out there. And you know.
Chloe Lannert: you know, being able to just build that credibility, that comfort, and then
Chloe Lannert: kind of that tease of what we could do together. But I also like, if I'm going in a conversation like that. I'm I'm heavily trying to research the person. You know everything I could find online. So it's going to be, oh, yeah, I saw you guys, your other portfolio you acquired. You know, this company, this company I know the founder of that, like you're able to like, connect the dots for them a little, and have like just a more customized conversation where you know not everyone does that.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, no, that's great. And then
Chloe Lannert: you mentioned kind of went with this guy to get barbecue with them. You hung out with them that day. Was it like that? That day was enough? And I was like, All right. But yeah, by the end of the day we we were like I was talking with him in the office, and and like I I asked him, you know, what would you be willing to invest? And I think, he said, like 150, or something like that. And I had this 250 number of my, and I was like, what about 2 50? It's like.
Chloe Lannert: let me think about it. He thought about it. We went to his house, had some drinks, and then he said, Yes, by the end of the trip. Wow, yeah. And you know, it was, it's really just
Chloe Lannert: everything all coming together at one time. Yeah, safe program. That was already.
Chloe Lannert: Well, no. I used his 250 to get 100,000 or and that fill out that 350. Yeah, because once I had, hey, guy, I sent an email to all the investors. I just got a quarter 1 million from this investor, and you know he founded a company similar to mine. We're going to raise, you know, 7 million dollar cap does anyone else want to come in?
Chloe Lannert: And that couple investors raised their hand just because that one guy invested and showed a new vote of confidence. So were these people who are already on your already. On the captain
Chloe Lannert: he made a verbal commitment. I sent the docs like if I left on the weekend, I said Monday morning like 1st thing, so it'd be, Tim texted him. He! What's funny he had like is, he had an attorney in Kansas like, read it. There's like one minor thing he wanted to change. And I was like, Yeah, you know that that's fine. And
Chloe Lannert: he signed it wired the money like within a day, and it was just incredible.
Chloe Lannert: I never gave a board seat for any any to any investor. Typically, the 1st time you'd see a board seat is a really at this point I haven't seen anyone.
Chloe Lannert: I literally have not seen or worked with a company that had a board that wasn't founders before series. A
Chloe Lannert: just not universal, just like your story about like your investor is very similar. So the advice I got for entering this so is, it's someone who sees himself in you.
Chloe Lannert: who wants to solve the problem of serving them
Chloe Lannert: doesn't have the time to do it himself, and that you know already.
Chloe Lannert: That's that's kind of the and and kind of has
Chloe Lannert: the means to invest. That's that's basically the advice I got of. Otherwise don't take money from your jobs
Chloe Lannert: that when I was kind of looking at the textile of Los Angeles, that was the
Chloe Lannert: yeah, I think what's really interesting in your story. There's is that there's also differing levels of professionalism and understanding of the level of risk, like there are some people. If if anyone's putting out a check like 50 K. And above, they know what they're getting into. They have enough money that they can afford to throw it away.
Chloe Lannert: and it's almost like somewhere between
Chloe Lannert: their brokerage account and gambling is where angel investments sit in the psychology, as far as I understand it, where it's like almost this hobby
Chloe Lannert: where they're just using their money versus someone who's agonizing over a 10 K. Check. That's something that they can't really afford to just delete from their life without understanding that there's going to be something coming back. You said that he was a previous angel investor, though. Do you know, like he didn't actually make too many investments. That's the that's the craziest part. So like he told me, he usually didn't invest in auto
Chloe Lannert: for one. And and the other thing is.
Chloe Lannert: he also had to double check
Chloe Lannert: based on him selling his company if he could, you know, invest in auto crm, which he was passed because it was 7 years past. There's no problem.
Chloe Lannert: Right? Oh, so this was the the good guy, not the 10. K, yeah. I think that level of understanding is also interesting like, based on the angels that I've spoken to like. If they really understand the business models that they're working with, they'll have their own sort of homegrown conviction that what you're doing is going to work.
Chloe Lannert: You won't have to sell them and be like, Hey, I promise this is gonna work because of this, this and this. They can look at what you have be like. I can see the logic versus
Chloe Lannert: you having to like sell like please, 10 k. Like versus 2, 50. Yeah, I get it easy. Here you go, exactly.
Chloe Lannert: But
Chloe Lannert: you know about it like we did one round before 3 investors, and like all 3 very different. One of them is like
Chloe Lannert: 2 exits under sales. Yeah, signed contract wide demanding.
Chloe Lannert: It's just imagined super nice.
Chloe Lannert: And it was helpful. One of them is like strategic and like a big modeling agency as we get our tech side
Chloe Lannert: to put the money that you know, there's like a pr agency that I thought was gonna be the useful
Chloe Lannert: industry. Classes are greater stuff. But then
Chloe Lannert: I was interested in them because the founder of that agency I really like. She's got brilliant tracker and everything. And then it turns out
Chloe Lannert: back, your agency is part of a holding group. But so the people investing are the Ceos about holding
Chloe Lannert: totally different story. But at that point I was
Chloe Lannert: invested in the person. They're not knowledgeable. They're not.
Chloe Lannert: And they're paying gas. They're almost supposed to need investment.
Chloe Lannert: But then today, so it's like
Chloe Lannert: one of them is a knowledgeable investor, easy, one
Chloe Lannert: couldn't connect. And actually, it turns out that the
Chloe Lannert: customer who's an industry expert while they are that you knew nothing about investment.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I think
Chloe Lannert: also, when I was younger I was probably more responsive, like meaning nowadays. If I had someone do a 10 K. Check and peppering me with questions each week, I probably wouldn't respond to those questions each week. But when you're young and they're one of your investors, and they're part of same Angel group as other people who are great, who invested in your company, I kind of felt like more of a need to like appease to that like which
Chloe Lannert: nowadays I probably wouldn't, I'd say, Hey, look! This is the smallest check we've taken. You cannot be disruptive, you know, to the business. I would I'd be able to handle it. I think a lot differently now than than I did back then, which is more like, Okay, I'll send you the information on this or or this, or whatever question you have. Let me just double check. I think there are a couple
Chloe Lannert: kind of interesting things. I wanted to talk a little bit about the M. And a process and selling Selly it because there were some lessons here that I think are really important, even if you're not at that point, like I, I think it might be interesting. So.
Chloe Lannert: So here's what happened in 2020. Imagine this pandemic starts.
Chloe Lannert: We get a shitload of dealer cancellations because everything's freaking out. Everyone's freaking out. I'm like, oh, my God! And at 1st I think God, we we might get screwed like this is like worst case scenario, you know. People might not buy cars like oil went negative.
Chloe Lannert: And then
Chloe Lannert: we get into the end of the year. Things pick up, and there's a big acquisition in our industry. This company called Fraser. They were a Dms company
Chloe Lannert: just serving used car dealers. Dms, is back office software to print forms form printing software. When you go to dealership
Chloe Lannert: inside baseball. Yeah, yeah, you basically print forms sign the forms in the dealership. That's what Dms software does. It's like the compliance like software.
Chloe Lannert: And they got bought for over 100 million. They were just focused on used car dealers, 100 bootstrapped, and that started getting a lot of PE interest. And I've had PE firms in the past completely waste my time. Say they were going to acquire early on. Do not waste a lot of time, but at this point there was a big acquisition in the industry. There are a lot of PE firms that started being interested all of a sudden in auto software used car dealer software.
Chloe Lannert: And we we were picking up sales momentum, too.
Chloe Lannert: because, like things, things were coming. And then I started noticing, like, just in public markets, like crazy valuations on companies. I was like, God, this company got bought for this multiple, this stocks trading at this price, like what's going on like
Chloe Lannert: blue startups. I think, told me I should fund raise at this time, but I was like, if everyone else is fundraising, you know. Maybe this is the time to to sell. And then I talked to the CEO and auto manager, who just found the same portfolio. And they
Chloe Lannert: hey, we're to sell to because of this one company selling for over a hundred 1 million.
Chloe Lannert: which sounds small compared to 1 billion dollar companies. But this is a hundred percent bootstrapped. You know, founder gets 100 million after sold. But I I decided, you know what. Let's let's let's start to take some conversations. And I had a really big P firm, 12 billion dollar au and P. firm@firstst
Chloe Lannert: So when he forwarded me for like 2 months, then went silent.
Chloe Lannert: And I'm like, Oh, shit! I thought they were gonna buy my company. When I say I thought they were gonna buy my company. I bought a porsche for my 30th birthday, cause I was like, all right, you know, and
Chloe Lannert: and then they they stopped talking to me. I'm like shit. And then I'm like I am gonna talk to in some investment banks. The lowest quota investment bank would give to sell. My company was a million dollars. They sold auto software, had a track record of selling auto software. If you're doing a really big transaction investment bank might make sense, but smaller or mid size, maybe not.
Chloe Lannert: And I
Chloe Lannert: just like start going crazy. I built my own book. Instead of using Investment Bank. When you're pitching your company, you build something called a book, as all your financials who works for your company, just giving like A. P. For that full, you know disclosure about your company, and I started creating conversations, and then call me intro me to the P. Firm in New York. I had that, you know, 4h conversation.
Chloe Lannert: They got it. The CEO of auto manager, who's a part of same portfolio, is mine.
Chloe Lannert: had that 4h meeting things went well, and then I I they come out to San Francisco, and the funny thing it was during pandemic we had this teeny, teeny office in South San Francisco that was embarrassing.
Chloe Lannert: and normally they do technical diligence and send a whole team out to meet your dev team and everything they were doing this. We just had a mask dinner at a High End restaurant in San Francisco, and
Chloe Lannert: you know they gave us an Loi loi is a letter of intent. Once you get the loi they're saying, Okay, we. If everything works out in due diligence, we'll buy the your company for this amount. Then I go to a law firm. And I get a quote, and they say, Oh, yeah, we we could probably just represent you for 150,000 like great. And the P firm, they're like, yeah, you just take a couple of months to close
Chloe Lannert: the actual time to close 6 months.
Chloe Lannert: Take 6 months. So if you think Oh, I got a little money in the bank, you you need more money than you think to sell your company one. I had to give a personal guarantor
Chloe Lannert: because for this law firm.
Chloe Lannert: for the amount that I'm going to pay them. That means if the transaction doesn't work. I'm on the hook.
Chloe Lannert: So I get stressed out because what happens in the process, my attorney, I he's like Zach. We need to talk
Chloe Lannert: 2 things. Your option holders are gonna have to pay a lot of money tax, even though it's like part cash part equity. The equity is still gonna get taxed.
Chloe Lannert: So we had to figure out a way to make a whole new class of shares so they wouldn't have all of these negative tax implications. We do that in the attorney calls me, and I'm every day I'm talking to the P. Firm. We're getting closer and closer and closer. It's like, I know, I said. It's going to be 150,000. It's going to be half a million for both.
Chloe Lannert: and I'm like, Oh, my God! And I I freaked out, and I said, Look, I'm gonna call the CEO of your firm. This is bullshit, like we agreed to this number. Back and forth we settle like 300,000
Chloe Lannert: and keep in mind. I like, when they would put an associate from San Francisco on my call and try and charge me $500, I'd say, take this person off. I don't want to be charged for an associate to listen to the call.
Chloe Lannert: because they'll charge you like crazy.
Chloe Lannert: and you know it. Then, like, you know.
Chloe Lannert: one of the employees was trying to renegotiate their equity in the middle of a transaction that would blow the whole thing up had to walk them off the ledge
Chloe Lannert: and finally, finally it it went through. It was sold. Everyone got wires from the P. Firm. You know, people paid off student debt. It was great outcome. And then everyone saw equity as well. They're invested most of our team still here, you know, even after the acquisition. But like just that, M. And a process, a lot of people think, oh, you know, we have like 3 months of funding left. Maybe we can sell. It's like.
Chloe Lannert: you gotta consider just the legal cost to do the transaction and also the payroll. And like, even if a firm says, Oh, yeah, we could probably do this transaction in 2 months. It's going to take at least double that and a lot of transactions. I see. You know things come up like random stuff. Whether it's like that. Options issue like things will come up that will delay that process and make it, you know, a lot longer.
Chloe Lannert: I can't we? We had a couple 1 million in arr. I can't say specific, but lower end of a couple 1 million, and we had a multiple on revenue a lot of PE firms they'll pay based on ebitda. That's profit. That means you're going to sell for less than one X multiple. We sold for 7 x.
Chloe Lannert: So you know, Bootstrapped Company. Smaller company. But
Chloe Lannert: you know it's it's been a interesting journey. I'm trying to see if there's anything else I have here. That's what percentage of like during the due diligence. How often does it fall through like in the due diligence? Because, like you were on the hook for that 500,000 of the law firm and like and bought a porsche. Oh, yeah, I was. I was nervous, scared. I couldn't sleep well for months
Chloe Lannert: lost weight, stressed, looked terrible
Chloe Lannert: scared all the in another thing that happened in the transaction. They wanted to renegotiate the deal at 1 point, because what happened? I did my loi in November 2021. That's the whole peak of the market. Each month it started getting worse and worse and worse and worse, and they tried to like renegotiate in the middle, and I I held firm and said I would walk, which is balding.
Chloe Lannert: you know, but, like I I just knew like they wanted to do an earn out on revenue targets and like, if you do that.
Chloe Lannert: they could change factors. It's like, hey? I thought you were going to give us this budget for sales. No, we're giving you half of that. And how are you going to hit their earn out.
Chloe Lannert: So you have to be like really thoughtful about, you know, in the earn out in that sort of situation.
Chloe Lannert: And
Chloe Lannert: and you know, the it's just they were also another auto. Crm company is willing to sell for less, but the founder was in his seventies.
Chloe Lannert: and you know I made the pitch. I'll have a little more longevity here. But what I what I've seen now, and and this is kind of interesting
Chloe Lannert: since I joined. You know I also work as chief strategy officer. We've done like 3 transactions and vertical focus auto software. And I wrote some notes about like what we look for in a company?
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: we want like 90% annual retention. A lot of Smb Sas has very high churn like maybe 30 a year like 25 a year.
Chloe Lannert: So like if you're gonna sell to a strategic, they might be a little looser. But if you're selling to P. Firm, they're like very disciplined. They put together models on how they acquire companies. And they have, like, usually like very specific criteria. So if you're profitable with like a low to mid growth rate
Chloe Lannert: like that's. That's 1 thing that a lot of P firms look for. If you're break even or slightly negative, you need to have a very high growth rate. And that's kind of an exception to the tool or sorry the rule. And you want to make sure, too, that, like your team, is going to be 2 feet in because they're gonna interview people on your team in some cases without you there.
Chloe Lannert: And you got to make sure that person's rock solid because they never talked to PE firm before in New York, you know they might get scared. They might get nervous. They might not know what to say so. You have to be really thoughtful about coaching your whole team because they're not going to just have you pitch and then say, Okay, let's fight. They want to meet your engineers, your key people, your sales, Guy, you know, etc. So you have to do
Chloe Lannert: a lot of like just coaching, because one person could say one wrong thing and blow it up so like for us, we might look at a couple of 100 companies just to buy one company, and I would say about 50% of the time it falls through with due diligence.
Chloe Lannert: Because here's the other thing people do bullshit, they'll say, oh, yeah, we have 10 million in AR. And then there's like weird accounting or things that don't make sense. So sometimes it is actually on the company that's selling another company we're gonna buy. They lost their biggest customer midway through due diligence, and then the whole transaction was changed, and it was a fraction of the amount. So like the other thing we always talk about that you don't want
Chloe Lannert: be with that one big customer for us.
Chloe Lannert: We have a bunch of like similar size customers. So we don't have as much risk post. True car our business. It could work. I've seen a company that had a huge marquee client and get acquired, and that was a big driver for wanting to do that. But I think there's just if you just have one big customer. There's just so much that could go wrong. It's it's scary. But in some cases it could work so like, you know, right?
Chloe Lannert: He says that a bunch of the B. Shops jerk you around waste your time one. Why did they do that early on? Here's why
Chloe Lannert: PE firms there are some. They just want to talk to you so they can figure out what's your revenue? How do you acquire customers? They might acquire a similar company. They want to know what is out there on the market in some cases like it could be helpful to them. It's like, Hey, we talked to this company. I don't think they're as good as you. There's nothing to worry about like we did diligence. They only have this amount of revenue. Their team size is only this, even though firms aren't supposed to do that. A lot of firms do sadly
Chloe Lannert: and like what happens like earlier on at selling, we get a P. Firm. And they're like, Hey, we just bought this company for X 1 million dollars. We're looking to make acquisitions just like you. You know, that 1st call. Wow! We're so impressed. We love what you're working on. Would you mind sending your financials over your projection, you know, like they're trying in some cases to get inside information, you know. So like. And also.
Chloe Lannert: if you're very early.
Chloe Lannert: not often will PE firm pull the trigger because they're looking for some maturity and revenue growth and like predictability. Maybe a strategic would like say, Hey, you know we love the startup. We love the team. We'll just acquire them. Based on that, you know.
Chloe Lannert: And are you? Is there a way to snip those up?
Chloe Lannert: You know?
Chloe Lannert: I think you really don't need to engage with PE till you're you're ready to sell, because if they're cold reaching out to you, and you're not even thinking about selling, you're just gonna spend time with them. You're gonna give them information they may or may not be able to use. And
Chloe Lannert: the, you know, like, if if you know truthfully like.
Chloe Lannert: if we went through diligence, they might find this problem. We need to have, you know better churn, or, you know, fix these engineering issues
Chloe Lannert: like, you gotta be really ready to sell, because it takes so much of your time like for 6 months like that was most of my time, that whole process of selling my company.
Chloe Lannert: But, like early on, it's
Chloe Lannert: you don't know, because they have very similar pitches, very similar processes. But if you're gonna send someone all your financials, you should be ready to sell. That's like the next step after the intro call a lot of time. It's like, Okay, we heard you. It sounds good. Now prove it send the financials.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. So most of my customers are from Akr. And I was up there like Kickoff event and like talking with one of the guys. He's like, Yeah, he's like, I actually feel really bad for all the starts to talk to. He's like we have to talk to 400 a year, and we're only going to make like 7 investments. And he's like, and these startups, you know, there's little tiny teams, and they're jumping through all the hoops. And like we're asking them for a lot. And I feel something like that for some of them. They're like really invested. They think that this big old company is going to buy them.
Chloe Lannert: SIM's father is involved. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: but he he realizes that he's kind of wasting their time. If they're not actually going to make the investment. But, like the thing about PE is, they have to make investment. Otherwise they don't unlock that fund right? So like with PE, it's like, think about like a teacher's 401 k, right? 20% of the teachers, 401 K fund is allocated to the PE fund. But they can't access that money until they deploy into buying a company. So they have to make investments.
Chloe Lannert: I just want to be smart about it.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. So getting to the point of selling like you were ready. You're 7 years in, like you were ready. Yeah, I mean, my. My view was, this is a good time to sell, because the multiples are high, and I knew what was I? I like, you can't predict the market, but I just knew I'm like everything's at all time. High things are getting super frothy like it. Just it just felt like this is. And then we had, you know, the sales traction, etc, to back it up.
Chloe Lannert: and that it just felt like this is the time to sell. And
Chloe Lannert: luckily it worked out, you know. Luckily it was the right timing, because the whole economy fell apart after that, temporarily. So yeah, it was interesting. Let me see if I have anything else that
Chloe Lannert: oh, 3 things I forgot to mention one of the most effective. After we learned the true car lesson, I got another big integrated partner. And here's what I did differently. Instead of getting a license fee, I said, I want your entire customer list, first, st name, last name cell phone number email.
Chloe Lannert: And they did it. Here's why we had to help a lot of these legacy auto software companies develop their 1st sales apis because they've never had to do integrations like ours. They often had less sophisticated teams. So we helped them a little, and while I could have charged maybe a license fee or some fee because we're adding value to them. Like we're basically making it so they don't get displaced because they have an integrated Crm.
Chloe Lannert: whereas a competitor might have an integrated Crm. But rather than money.
Chloe Lannert: I wanted their customer list, and it was hard. People feel very vulnerable when you ask the customer list. We had to, you know. Give them a lot of confidence that we weren't going to abuse that. And we put it in a license agreement. We still cold. Call that list every single day, including today, like, we're literally still working that list. But rather than doing what true Card did
Chloe Lannert: and like just wasting a lot of time. I'm like their customer list means we could sell for many, many years. Because if you have someone's cell phone, it's just a matter of time before you're going to get a hold of them through email, cell phone number. And like that was instrumental, actually building our company because it was a really large player in the industry.
Chloe Lannert: and I did that with several other companies. I convinced them to give us their customer list.
Chloe Lannert: I would not do that like. Personally, I think that's that's high risk. If if it was my company like giving our customer list. But like that
Chloe Lannert: helped us, and it was because there were a lot of these, less sophisticated like. The companies had good revenue good traction, but they weren't very
Chloe Lannert: sophisticated from an engineering standpoint, and there are ways that we could help them, because we've done those integrations like multiple times, and we help protect them from rip and replace from competition. Yeah, there were modern, all in ones. They don't need us for anything. They're taking our customers already. So like we had to find that.
Chloe Lannert: And 1 1 really funny story was opening our 1st office in the Philippines. So basically, Matt told me about what he did in the Philippines, I decided, all right, we're gonna go out there. We're gonna hire some engineers. We're gonna get an office space. I started calling offices in the Philippines. I found one that was perfect. We already had some people virtual. And they were asking like, Can we work in offices for the pandemic? I was like, Yeah, I found this
Chloe Lannert: place online. It looked like the weworks.
Chloe Lannert: I asked him a ton of questions.
Chloe Lannert: Go out there.
Chloe Lannert: everyone comes. We're starting our 1st day at the office. The Internet's 2MB per second. They lied to us. They lied to us and got me in a contract where the Internet's 2MB per second, and we had to get this set up in advance because we had all of these engineers asking to work in office. They weren't as productive at home because Internet sucks all over, you know, in the Philippines.
Chloe Lannert: and I had to get out of that contract.
Chloe Lannert: Then we had to find another office space.
Chloe Lannert: I had to buy all these laptops everything like we didn't know that traffic was bad there. There's like 3h of traffic each way to go like 10 miles.
Chloe Lannert: We didn't understand just a lot about working in that market. And today I do a big Philippines event every year, like we have people all across the different portfolio companies. But like, I learned a lot of lessons just opening that 1st office, doing everything in person that you wouldn't get online. But what we did that's differently. A lot of people will hire dev shop, and they're working for Dev Shop or Bpo, or whatever the case is.
Chloe Lannert: We individually interviewed everyone. We made sure they were culture fit. We had them kind of on a contracted first.st We had to have like literal monitoring in the office, too. I know it sounds crazy, but like, if you have people thousands of miles away, you've got to put stuff in place to monitor. That includes tracking their screen.
Chloe Lannert: I know that people hear that they're like, are you going too far? That's Big brother. We have settled so many, he said. She said. Scenarios just pulling up the history and said, no, actually, you sent that to him on teams or no. You were watching Youtube videos for 2h. That's why, you know our sprint storyboards off by 2 points.
Chloe Lannert: you know, like. So so we've we've really learned a lot, and first, st
Chloe Lannert: but it's helpful for us. Here's why.
Chloe Lannert: So so what happened in the pandemic. Here's the craziest thing I had. I got our biggest office right before the pandemic started my! I went out to the Philippines in February of 2020 and leased a big office
Chloe Lannert: every we were so excited to move in. Our team was growing, and then the pandemic starts, and in the Philippines they wouldn't even let people in the building. I'm like, Wait. I'm paying for office space more than we're paying for San Francisco. No one's allowed in the building, and I had to go up to like the CEO to get them to let us out of the lease
Chloe Lannert: in a 3rd World country, where really they don't have the same recourse they do in the United States, and they do take a deposit which we did give, and we only had it for like a couple of months, and I was able to get out of it. And then, when people were working remote, we had to upgrade their Internet, we knew specific providers. We had to compensate people from some work they had to make to have a better like
Chloe Lannert: acoustic setup. We had to put some serious investment into people during the pandemic to really, you know, still leverage the Philippines. Because if we didn't, people have 2MB Internet at home
Chloe Lannert: and like, I will say we're 15min over if anyone needs to jump.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, yes, it is worth it.
Chloe Lannert: If you have good Us. Management, if you're fully reliant on just offshoring. That's where it comes to ride. But if you have a great like director of engineering, great Vp of product, or understand the model like they can make that work for customer support. Sometimes car dealers are abusive, like a lot of we've had. We hired someone who cried on their 1st day. A car dealer was so rude. She unfortunately, you know, wasn't the right fit. But, like some of these grind, like
Chloe Lannert: super aggressive, pissed off Alpha type. Guys, yeah.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: My colleagues have gone 1st day into dealerships, cried.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, exactly. So like.
Chloe Lannert: so there are some situations that make sense. But are you gonna have key architecture decisions? No. Are you gonna have someone who's demoing clients like on an hour call and has to know the nuance of the type of dealerships. No. But could you use the Sdr. Yes, could you do like tier? One tier, 2 support. Yes, so like certain parts, I think you could leverage offshore, and certain parts are better to be done with a core really committed team.
Chloe Lannert: What are your thoughts now on offshoring versus just automation? Well, I had to use offshore this beforehand, now that
Chloe Lannert: I I think that it's a big threat to offshore, because the way to get offshore to be effective, you have to be so high touch, so hands on in our experience, and then experience of 3 other companies in the portfolio. It could be different for other people. But just our experience, it's beyond high touch, and in some cases there's also high attrition with certain roles, and you have to retrain a lot. So it's like.
Chloe Lannert: if if like.
Chloe Lannert: if I had a good developer. And they knew how to use AI tools like you could argue they could be just as effective as like a small team.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, I think that automation helps. You have a smaller team and be more competitive. It's like a startup than you could have in the past, like there are so many ways. We use AI, you know, marketing sales, etc. But like.
Chloe Lannert: I think, for the time, like that's all we had. But today.
Chloe Lannert: I think still for support, and like really aggressive dealing with aggressive people and someone not just quitting their job because of that. It's good for roles like that. And then Sdr. Roles like a lot of people in the Us. Have problems with a lot of cold calls. They burn out like. I remember when I was doing cold calls 120 cold calls a day. My throat and my ear would hurt by the end of the day like it's not something you want to do for many years.
Chloe Lannert: so are they as productive
Chloe Lannert: from a support standpoint because you're getting fed. Call answer, call chat. Yes, from a Sdr. Standpoint.
Chloe Lannert: They're not as effective as I was when I was Sdr. I can't ex, you know. I would say not as, but still enough to to be worth the cost
Chloe Lannert: developers certain ones. Yes, like, we have some good individual contributors.
Chloe Lannert: Here's who have experience with like legacy and Vc code that we still have in our platform. We are more like.net forward. But we do have legacy components. And in some of these countries you have people who have more expertise in in the Us. Someone might be like, oh, I don't want to work in an old tech stack. I want to do new stuff
Chloe Lannert: there. They might not care as much. So so we have a company that's still desktop base.
Chloe Lannert: So you have to like download a windows, file, install it. It's it's a lot of dealers still use quickbooks desktop
Chloe Lannert: some of their Dms software, you know, it's like, it's it's kind of a weird industry in that way. So sometimes, like they, one of the companies needed a developer in Clarion. That's a language that's used in the nineties and late eighties. Yeah, so, but there's someone in the Philippines who's been working for some random Australian company who was in Clarion, and he was a good fit. So like there's things like that. But I would definitely say, like.
Chloe Lannert: director of engineering stuff like that.
Chloe Lannert: definitely, not offshore, like, due to us, based, yeah.
Chloe Lannert: any final thoughts. Thank you. I guess hopefully, it's interesting. Yeah, thank you so much. I mean, it was super interesting, awesome. And it's a, it's an amazing amazing story. Thank you. Yeah. 10 years of your life total, a little less. Well, 8 years to build it. And then I've been on 2 years since. Yeah, 10 years. Yeah, we turned to you look like it's it's only been 9 and a half.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, don't buy anything nice before you sell. That's probably the dumbest one of the dumbest. I thought it was a sure deal, and.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Me.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: I mean, I have too many like very specific questions. So I'm.
Chloe Lannert: Of course.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, cool.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: I'm just about to email you with a couple of times since your board meeting went. Well, thank you so much that actually gave me so much context. And there's so many things that I'm doing. And I have questions about. And you just said that you did them like this is perfect. I'm so excited.
Chloe Lannert: Go for it. What questions do you have?
Vivian @makingautoeasy: So many. Okay, right? Now.
Chloe Lannert: If you want.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Store.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: They're very specific to the business. I don't know if everybody is still sitting.
Chloe Lannert: It's just us, basically.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Okay. I guess just a little bit about the business. I don't know how much you've seen, but essentially I have
Vivian @makingautoeasy: it started off like we matched people to the right vehicles. We did that just B to C, and then went into a couple of dealerships. I did like cold walk ins check the website, found the GM. Asked for the GM. Got straight into and then sold to 2 out of the 4 that I talked to, and they started paying us. So it became like rather than a paper guest sheet process, or just like remembering which questions to ask the customer. It was a streamlined, structured intake process. We mapped it to their inventory, and then it sent everything into their Crm. They are working with techion.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: but they realized, like most of their information, was garbage in the information wasn't going to the right field. It would be like Guy with green shirt. Kind of thing.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, yeah.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah. So what I was able to do is have a very structured process. And I gave it to the sales people in the form of like I would just a link out to your. They can use on their tablet computer phones on a lot. And we started getting like all the right information in the right fields so they can do proper marketing. So we've now just signed our 1st enterprise deal, which is.
Chloe Lannert: All right.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: And it's it's like half white labeled, but it literally says, powered by May.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, yeah, crazy.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: That's a really good learning. Because I I can totally see how that would happen. And we're only working with groups that are like 30 stores, and under, I think, anything past that I might have to have that conversation. So I guess that's a bit of the context, I think where we can go in the future is the product. I don't know how it can work with all of these crms I want to. I don't know how like open they would be to it.
Chloe Lannert: That's the problem, like, just for context in the industry. Like you, you look at like a salesforce or Hubspot. There's all these Apis. They could easily integrate with. If you look at auto software, a lot of these players don't wanna work with each other, or if they do, they charge you a crazy amount like Reynolds and Reynolds wanted to charge us couple of $100,000 just to be certified. And we're like no way. And like.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: We.
Chloe Lannert: We've denied integrations because we'd have to pay so much, and we have a smaller amount of dealers on it. But like, I think it's getting better like Cdk is built some stuff out. But for me, like it's a it's like a custom
Chloe Lannert: biz dev negotiation with any integration partner almost in auto. If they're big public companies, it's 1 thing, but if they're like smaller private, they might feel like they could monetize the integration in some way, and like, take some feet in order to work with them.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah, like, right now, because techion, we just send the information Adf formats. We don't need anything we're now about to do a deal with E-dealer because the group that we signed on that's how they. That's how we need to pull inventory. That's how we get photos. That's how we're gonna get pricing. So we kind of have to do it. And they're charging us $1,200. But it let me get 10 stores in the group, which is so, it it still works out. But then, now, the things that they're asking from us because it's becoming like this sales enablement tool that that's their starting point.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: It's now tiptoeing into like pulling for like for your credit score. And they want to tie to more to their inventory, and they want to do more desking things. So it it feels. I'm I feel a little bit uncomfortable, truthfully, is I want to learn, and I want to figure out how we can work with people. But I have this. I can just feel that some people are going to see it as competitive. And that's not what I'm trying to do. I just want to know what I my options are, and maybe who the right partners are.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I mean the good thing about Xml. Adf, you could kind of send it to any Crm without doing any level of integration.
Chloe Lannert: But if you're doing like Dms data like deal desking, then I think there's
Chloe Lannert: that like, there's more of like a connection and a custom like Biz dev integration opportunity with that like vendor, and like dealing with it on a 1 off basis. I mean, I think Reynolds is like the most expensive, hardest to integrate with player I. It sounds like techion is maybe open or easier to work with. Cdk, they have the Fortellus platform.
Chloe Lannert: If you're going to use car. It sounds like you're just new car, like used car. It's all like Mom and pop businesses. You have to pay them or negotiate, you know, in some way, but I think, like Dealer socket, they might have open apis. They don't monetize. That's like a celera company. Automate is owned by dealers socket. So maybe they don't like monetize it in that way.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: So I give you a very specific example. So we match to the right vehicles in their inventory. But it's not based on the right payment. So work we've been able to convert more people to giving their information to do a pre approval. But I'm not. I'm not doing them. I'm not getting them approved myself. So now the salespeople have to go into another tool, and because they want everything on to be on one, I want to naturally make that connection, or do it myself.
Chloe Lannert: Who are they using.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: For? For? What?
Chloe Lannert: For the F and I component so you're you're basically, you know, sending it like credit app to get pre approved. Are they using like dealer track route, one.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: And they want. So they want me to connect with Equifax
Vivian @makingautoeasy: and then have that map to like. Now, here are the vehicles that you actually are qualified to buy.
Chloe Lannert: Why, why, just equifax, it's to me it's like
Chloe Lannert: a lot of dealers use route. One dealer track to send a credit app and see if one of the lenders on their platforms can approve it. I've heard of vendors integrating directly with capital one.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: I. We have
Chloe Lannert: but done this work because we're more Crm, you know. So like, Dms is like sending a lot of like that finance data in the used car space. But, like maybe a interesting player might be capital one, because they have almost some level of like digital retail to send a credit app and get an instant approval. The problem with a lot of lenders that you'd send credit apps to is their legacy, and that's why they have a intermediary, like a dealer track.
Chloe Lannert: And you don't always get instant responses. You could put a deal, and it like takes hours for a lender to say Yes, I'll I'll and it also depends if you're dealing with subprime prime, you know, dependent on the the type of the market as well.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah. And that's it's like the nuances that I know are going to be very complicated. And then I have to start thinking about like they want to be able to see incentives. And it just feels like it's gonna get very messy. So it's 1 of like the media things that I'm trying to tackle specifically for Canadian market right now.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. Instead, its own thing. Right? That's like a whole. Another integration point, because it could change like southeast Toyota has different incentives than another part of the country. For example.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Like this auto group. They use auto Vance for their desking tool. So now they don't wanna have to copy the customer information into Auto Vance, so they want me to send it to them. So then, now, is this just what it's like is like you find all of the vendors that they're working with.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, of course pleasure appreciate it. That was super helpful. Thank you. Thank you.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: So is that just how it works, the program.
Chloe Lannert: Yes. So imagine this. We we like for the Dms company that we acquired. They had to painstakingly, individually integrate with everyone, dealer, track, route one cuddle. Then they had to integrate with different F and I menu systems, or they have to integrate with 165 inventory providers, and some of them are easy, and they'll set up a Ftp, you know. Feed in a day, and others want you to have.
Chloe Lannert: I don't know, like iso compliance, and like sign, a formal biz dev agreement. So yes, that's that's 1 of the things where it's not a connected open Api friendly industry like generic, you know, if you did salesforce Hubspot, it's like
Chloe Lannert: pay to play custom negotiations, meeting people conferences, but some people will do it for free. You know, it just depends on the vendor
Chloe Lannert: incentives, though, or something that might be monetized often, because to get all that data, I think, like a 3rd party vendor would probably charge for that.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah, I think that sounds great.
Chloe Lannert: But like, here's something that's maybe possible, like a biz dev deal with like a capital one, or, you know, to to like highlight, a single
Chloe Lannert: lender that you could do a direct credit application into, and maybe what they've built with capital one already integrates with dealer track or route. One or another system they use like finding someone like that, you know.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: And that's the thing is like, what I want to avoid is over indexing on one auto group, because another one might be different. They have different vendors.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, exactly.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah. So that's kind of what I'm I was focusing on quality, not quantity. And now that I've done that, it's like, okay, let's go start selling again. So on that note. I'm doing all my cold calls, my strategy right now, and what I've noticed in my Icp is like the ones that the stores that have a really good process. They have.
Chloe Lannert: So sorry. Can I take my laptop? Sure.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: There you go!
Chloe Lannert: Viv. I'm sorry I need to post the weekly what to expect.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Okay. It's all good.
Chloe Lannert: Email me, and we could connect next week, Vivian, and we could talk more.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Sounds good.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. When is the demo day? Let me pull my.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: 29, th Thursday.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, 29, th I could let me double check.
Chloe Lannert: Think I can.
Chloe Lannert: I think I can. I'll I'll be able, unless
Chloe Lannert: nothing crazy comes up before then I should be able to.
Chloe Lannert: I'm checking my calendar.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Okay. Awesome.
Chloe Lannert: I should be able to for that.
Chloe Lannert: But yeah, I guess just just to finally answer it. It's like, Yes, you have to do all these one off individual integrations with different vendors in the space. And it is painstaking. And you have to be thoughtful about what vendor you're integrating with, how many dealers that could potentially touch beyond, like the existing group.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah. And I guess the follow up question to that which we can talk about later is like, Do I just go because it's techy on, and it's auto advanced. Do I just go talk to them and get them to share me with like? Is there a revenue share? Opportunity? Give me that.
Chloe Lannert: Technion. It's big enough where, like, maybe, there's revenue opportunity for them to want to work with you.
Chloe Lannert: The other one I'm not sure of. I don't know enough about like.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, if they're small, I think you could charm and convince them, maybe. But they could also be the type of small business like you play our way or the highway, so it's hard to gauge, you know.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: For sure. Okay, I'll let Chloe take your laptop. Thank you so much.
Chloe Lannert: Do you have a plans right now?